The command line often allows the users to perform tasks more efficiently than the GUI.
cat, short for concatenate, is used to read, print, and combine files.
echo displays a line of text either on standard output or to place in a file.
sed is a popular stream editor often used to filter and perform substitutions on files and text data streams.
awk is an interpreted programming language, typically used as a data extraction and reporting tool.
sort is used to sort text files and output streams in either ascending or descending order.
uniq eliminates duplicate entries in a text file.
paste combines fields from different files. It can also extract and combine lines from multiple sources.
join combines lines from two files based on a common field. It works only if files share a common field.
split breaks up a large file into equal-sized segments.
Regular expressions are text strings used for pattern matching. The pattern can be used to search for a specific location, such as the start or end of a line or a word.
grep searches text files and data streams for patterns and can be used with regular expressions.
tr translates characters, copies standard input to standard output, and handles special characters.
tee saves a copy of standard output to a file while still displaying at the terminal.
wc (word count) displays the number of lines, words, and characters in a file or group of files.
cut extracts columns from a file.
less views files a page at a time and allows scrolling in both directions.
head displays the first few lines of a file or data stream on standard output. By default, it displays 10 lines.
tail displays the last few lines of a file or data stream on standard output. By default, it displays 10 lines.
strings extracts printable character strings from binary files.
The z command family is used to read and work with compressed files.
You can use the route utility program to manage IP routing.
You can monitor and debug network problems using networking tools.
Firefox, Google Chrome, Chromium, and Epiphany are the main graphical browsers used in Linux.
Non-graphical or text browsers used in Linux are Lynx, Links, and w3m.
You can use wget to download webpages.
You can use curl to obtain information about URLs.
FTP (File Transfer Protocol) is used to transfer files over a network.
ftp, sftp, ncftp, and yafc are command line FTP clients used in Linux.
You can use ssh to run commands on remote systems.


printers-------------------------
lp <filename>	To print the file to default printer
lp -d printer <filename>	To print to a specific printer (useful if multiple printers are available)
program | lp
echo string | lp	To print the output of a program
lp -n number <filename>	To print multiple copies
lpoptions -d printer	To set the default printer
lpq -a	To show the queue status
lpadmin	To configure printer queues
lpadmin	To configure printer queues
lpstat -p -d	To get a list of available printers, along with their status
lpstat -a	To check the status of all connected printers, including job numbers
cancel job-id
OR
lprm job-id	To cancel a print job
lpmove job-id newprinter	To move a print job to new printer

evince 1.pdf to open pdf
pdf2ps file.pdf	Converts file.pdf to file.ps
ps2pdf file.ps	Converts file.ps to file.pdf
pstopdf input.ps output.pdf	Converts input.ps to output.pdf
pdftops input.pdf output.ps	Converts input.pdf to output.ps
convert input.ps output.pdf	Converts input.ps to output.pdf
convert input.pdf output.ps	Converts input.pdf to output.ps
qpdf --empty --pages 1.pdf 2.pdf -- 12.pdf	Merge the two documents 1.pdf and 2.pdf. The output will be saved to 12.pdf.
qpdf --empty --pages 1.pdf 1-2 -- new.pdf	Write only pages 1 and 2 of 1.pdf. The output will be saved to new.pdf.
qpdf --rotate=+90:1 1.pdf 1r.pdf

qpdf --rotate=+90:1-z 1.pdf 1r-all.pdf

Rotate page 1 of 1.pdf 90 degrees clockwise and save to 1r.pdf

Rotate all pages of 1.pdf 90 degrees clockwise and save to 1r-all.pdf

qpdf --encrypt mypw mypw 128 -- public.pdf private.pdf	Encrypt with 128 bits public.pdf using as the passwd mypw with output as private.pdf
qpdf --decrypt --password=mypw private.pdf file-decrypted.pdf	Decrypt private.pdf with output as file-decrypted.pdf. 

pdftk 1.pdf 2.pdf cat output 12.pdf	Merge the two documents 1.pdf and 2.pdf. The output will be saved to 12.pdf.
pdftk A=1.pdf cat A1-2 output new.pdf	Write only pages 1 and 2 of 1.pdf. The output will be saved to new.pdf.
pdftk A=1.pdf cat A1-endright output new.pdf	Rotate all pages of 1.pdf 90 degrees clockwise and save result in new.pdf.

pdftk public.pdf output private.pdf user_pw PROMPT

When you run this command, you will receive a prompt to set the required password, which can have a maximum of 32 characters. A new file, private.pdf, will be created with the identical content as public.pdf, but anyone will need to type the password to be able to view it.

Combine three PDF files into one:
$ gs -dBATCH -dNOPAUSE -q -sDEVICE=pdfwrite  -sOutputFile=all.pdf file1.pdf file2.pdf file3.pdf
Split pages 10 to 20 out of a PDF file:
$ gs -sDEVICE=pdfwrite -dNOPAUSE -dBATCH -dDOPDFMARKS=false -dFirstPage=10 -dLastPage=20\
-sOutputFile=split.pdf file.pdf

pdfinfo 
It can extract information about PDF files, especially when the files are very large or when a graphical interface is not available.
flpsed 
It can add data to a PostScript document. This tool is specifically useful for filling in forms or adding short comments into the document.
pdfmod 
It is a simple application that provides a graphical interface for modifying PDF documents. Using this tool, you can reorder, rotate, and remove pages; export images from a document; edit the title, subject, and author; add keywords; and combine documents using drag-and-drop action.

CUPS provides two command-line interfaces: the System V and BSD.
The CUPS interface is available at http://localhost:631.
lp and lpr are used to submit a document to CUPS directly from the command line.
lpoptions can be used to set printer options and defaults.
PostScript effectively manages scaling of fonts and vector graphics to provide quality prints.
enscript is used to convert a text file to PostScript and other formats.

Portable Document Format (PDF) is the standard format used to exchange documents while ensuring a certain level of consistency in the way the documents are viewed.
pdftk joins and splits PDFs; pulls single pages from a file; encrypts and decrypts PDF files; adds, updates, and exports a PDF’s metadata; exports bookmarks to a text file; adds or removes attachments to a PDF; fixes a damaged PDF; and fills out PDF forms.
pdfinfo can extract information about PDF documents.
flpsed can add data to a PostScript document.
pdfmod is a simple application with a graphical interface that you can use to modify PDF documents.
Furthermore, you never edit grub.cfg directly; instead, you can modify the configuration files in /etc/grub.d and /etc/defaults/grub, and then run update-grub, or grub2-mkconfig and save the new configuration file.

